Docs 5941 mmp cloudhub v4.2 (#1014)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/deploy-to-cloudhub.adoc

> = Deploy Applications to CloudHub

Reviewer: This topic is about one method, so we should specify that in the title:
```suggestion
= Application Deployment to CloudHub Using the Mule Maven Plugin
```

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

You can deploy applications to CloudHub using any of the following tools:

* Anypoint Studio +
See xref:studio::deploy-mule-application-task.adoc[Deploy a Mule Application to CloudHub] for instructions.
* Anypoint CLI +
See the xref:runtime-manager::anypoint-platform-cli-commands.adoc#deploy-to-cloudhub[runtime-mgr cloudhub-application deploy] command documentation for instructions.
* Mule Maven Plugin +

> Follow the instructions in this article to deploy to CloudHub using Mule Maven Plugin.

Reviewer: We generally want to avoid self-reference ("this article"), and this topic is about only the third method, so I recommend recasting this topic intro as follows:

"In addition to using Anypoint Studio or the Anypoint Platform CLI for application deployment, you can also deploy, redeploy, or undeploy applications by using the Mule Maven plugin. To do so, you must meet certain prerequisites, including being familiar with CloudHub deployment parameters."

If possible, add something here about the circumstances under which your audience would prefer or need to use this method over the others.

== Prerequisites

The following are the prerequisites to deploy to CloudHub using the Mule Maven plugin.

> === Add the Mule Maven Plugin to your Project

Reviewer: I'm not sure that we need all three of these; in fact, a prerequisite section should really be just a list of things that should already be in place prior to starting the task (not instructions about how to accomplish them, or why).
These prerequisite tasks should have their own topics.

Suggest:

==Prerequisites

Before you can deploy to CloudHub using the Mule Maven plugin, you must have accomplished the following:
* Added the Mule Maven plugin to your project
* Configured the HTTP Listener
* Declared external classes and resources
* Become familiar with CloudHub deployment parameters

If you MUST document these here, make them as brief as possible. I would keep them as bullets...or a numbered list, if they are chronological. NOTE the final prereq.

include::partial$mmp-concept.adoc[tag=addMuleMavenPluginToAProject]

=== Configure the HTTP Listener

The host and port number of your HTTP Listener flow sources must be properly configured.

If you are using the HTTP Listener as source for your flow, you need to set its host to *0.0.0.0* and its port to *${http.port}*. CloudHub then dynamically allocates a port at deployment time.

=== Declare External Classes and Resources.

Declare all your external classes and resources in the `mule-artifact.json` file of your Mule application.

Due to the Mule 4 classloading isolation mechanism, all external classes and resources must be explicitly declared in the `exportedPackages` and `exportedResources` fields on the `mule-artifact.json` file before packaging and deploying the app.
+

> See xref:how-to-export-resources.adoc[Export Resources] to learn more about working with external resources in your Mule application.

Reviewer: See suggestion above.

> == Deploy Using Mule Maven Plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Deploy Your Application to CloudHub Using the Mule Maven Plugin
```

> The Mule Maven plugin enables you to deploy Mule applications to CloudHub using the command line. Follow the next steps to deploy applications to CloudHub:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Mule Maven plugin enables you to deploy Mule applications to CloudHub using the command line:
```

> . Make sure you added the Mule Maven plugin to your `pom.xml` file.

Reviewer: REMOVE; s/b covered by Prereq., right?

> . Inside the `plugin` element, add a configuration for your CloudHub deployment, replacing the placeholder values with your CloudHub information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Inside the `plugin` element, configure your CloudHub deployment, replacing the placeholder values with your CloudHub information:
```

Reviewer: Do we need to navigate the user to the plugin element? Is this at the command line?
I'm a little confused. What are the actual deployment steps? 
It looks like we have some prereqs (not steps).
Then configuring CloudHub, packaging the app, and executing to the deployment goal. Are these three actions the deployment task?

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<plugin>
include::example$mmp-concept-config.xml[]
  <configuration>
    <cloudHubDeployment>
      <uri>https://anypoint.mulesoft.com</uri>
      <muleVersion>${app.runtime}</muleVersion>
      <username>${username}</username>
      <password>${password}</password>
      <applicationName>${cloudhub.application.name}</applicationName>
      <environment>${environment}</environment>
      <properties>
        <key>value</key>
      </properties>
    </cloudHubDeployment>
  </configuration>
</plugin>
----
+
. From the command line in your project's folder, package the app and execute the deploy goal:
+
[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn clean package deploy -DmuleDeploy
----

== Redeploy to CloudHub

> To redeploy a Mule application using Mule Maven plugin, run the same command as you did to deploy. +

Reviewer: Under what circumstances would a user want or need to do this?
Does "redeploy" include deploying something previously deployed using one of the other methods?

```suggestion
To redeploy a Mule application using Mule Maven plugin, run the same command as you did to previously deploy the app. +
```
The same command? Do you mean follow the same three steps? What "command" specifically deployed it the first time? Clarify.

> CloudHub rewrites the app you had deployed.

Reviewer: OMIT; unnecessary.

=== Undeploy from CloudHub

> To undeploy a Mule application using Mule Maven plugin, run the following command:

Reviewer: Under what circumstances would a user want or need to do this?

I am also wondering if these are really task topics, if it's just one command to deploy and redeploy and one to undeploy. Is the rest just prereq?

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn mule:undeploy
----

> The undeploy command also deletes the app in Mule Maven plugin 3.3.0 and later versions.

Reviewer: But did we establish to which version we are documenting deploy/redeploy/undeploy in the first place?
Does only undeploy do this; not deploy/redeploy?

> === CloudHub Deployment Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== CloudHub Deployment Command Reference
```
Try to provide some intro text that clarifies the command and the parameters in relationship to each other and to the user tasks for deploy/redeploy and undeploy.

Reviewer: This table really should be a bullet list or a definition list instead.

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===
|Parameter | Description

> |`cloudHubDeployment` | Top-Level Element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`cloudHubDeployment` | Top-level element
```
I'm guessing the Description column is intended to be somewhat narrative, which means sentence-style capitalization (and periods if a complete sentence is used for the primary description of just one item. By this I mean if the entry for the next description, for example, were all one line: Your Anypoint Platform URI. If not set... as opposed to Your Anypoint Platform URI
                          If not set, by default....)

| `uri` | Your Anypoint Platform URI. +

> If not set, by default this value is set to +https://anypoint.mulesoft.com+.

Reviewer: + | `uri` | Your Anypoint Platform URI +
If not set, by default this value is set to +https://anypoint.mulesoft.com+.

But...why the + before and after the URI? When I view the transform, it doesn't look like the symbol does anything.

| `muleVersion` | The Mule version that will run in your CloudHub instance. +

> You need to ensure that this value is equal to or higher than the minimum required Mule version of your application.

Reviewer: | `muleVersion` | The version of Mule that you want to run in your CloudHub instance. +
Ensure that this value is equal to or later than the earliest required Mule version of your application.

| `username` | Your CloudHub username.
| `password` | Your CloudHub password.

> | `applicationName` | The name of your application in CloudHub. +

Reviewer: ditto no periods; GLOBAL per edit of pattern used for this table column

> This name is part of the domain of your deployed app. For example, naming your application application-1 makes your app's public domain +application-1.cloudhub.io+.

Reviewer: Same question about the + formatting around the domain name....

> | `artifact` | Absolute file location of the JAR to be deployed. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `artifact` | The absolute file location of the JAR file to be deployed. +
```
Does your audience understand "absolute" file location?

> If not set, by default it is the location of the JAR generated at the package phase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If not set, the location defaults to the JAR file generated at the package phase.
```

| `environment` | The CloudHub environment to which you want to deploy. This value must match any environment configured in your CloudHub account. +

> For Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
(omit)

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<environment>Sandbox</environment>
----
include::partial$mmp-concept.adoc[tag=propertiesParameterDescription]

> | `workers` | The number of workers. +

Reviewer: ditto re. removing periods; I have not/am not marking each one.

> By default, it is set to 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, this value is 1.
```

> | `workerType` | Size of each worker. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `workerType` | Size of each worker; one of the following values:
```

> Accepted values are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> MICRO (0.1 vCores) +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MICRO (default; 0.1 vCores) +
```

SMALL (0.2 vCores) +
MEDIUM (1 vCore ) +
LARGE (2 vCores) +
XLARGE (4 vCores) +
XXLARGE (8 vCores) +
4XLARGE (16 vCores)

> The default value is MICRO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> | `region` | Region of worker clouds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `region` | Region of worker clouds; one of the following:
```

Accepted values are:

> * us-east-1      -  US East (N. Virginia)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* us-east-1      -  US East (default; N. Virginia)
```

Reviewer: Is this format difficult to achieve in a table column? two columns, that is? Seems like it would be....

* us-west-2      -  US West (Oregon)
* eu-west-1      -  EU (Ireland)
* ap-southeast-2 -  Asia Pacific (Sydney)
* ap-southeast-1 -  Asia Pacific (Singapore)
* us-west-1      -  US West (N. California)
* eu-central-1   -  EU (Frankfurt)
* ap-northeast-1 -  Asia Pacific (Tokyo)
* eu-west-2      -  EU (London)
* ca-central-1   -  Canada (Central)
* sa-east-1      -  South America (São Paulo)
* us-east-2      -  US East (Ohio)

> The default value is  us-east-1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The default value is  us-east-1.

Reviewer 2: You might want to add below this table some new reference concepts ObjectStoreV2 and persistenQueues https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime/pull/1021#pullrequestreview-32324486
